                              Mount Munch


                               CHAPTER 1

On the east edge of the Land of Oz, in the Munchkin Country, is a big,
tall hill called Mount Munch. On one side, the bottom of this hill just
touches the Deadly Sandy Desert that separates the Fairyland of Oz from
all the rest of the world, but on the other side, the hill touches the
beautiful, fertile Country of the Munchkins.

The Munchkin folks, however, merely stand off and look at Mount Munch
and know very little about it; for, about a third of the way up, its
sides become too steep to climb, and if any people live upon the top of
that great towering peak that seems to reach nearly to the skies, the
Munchkins are not aware of the fact.

But people _do_ live there, just the same. The top of Mount Munch is
shaped like a saucer, broad and deep, and in the saucer are fields where
grains and vegetables grow, and flocks are fed, and brooks flow and
trees bear all sorts of things. There are houses scattered here and
there, each having its family of Hyups, as the people call themselves.
The Hyups seldom go down the mountain, for the same reason that the
Munchkins never climb up: the sides are too steep.

In one of the houses lived a wise old Hyup named Bini Aru, who used to
be a clever Sorcerer. But Ozma of Oz, who rules everyone in the Land of
Oz, had made a decree that no one should practice magic in her dominions
except Glinda the Good and the Wizard of Oz, and when Glinda sent this
royal command to the Hyups by means of a strong-winged Eagle, old Bini
Aru at once stopped performing magical arts. He destroyed many of his
magic powders and tools of magic, and afterward honestly obeyed the law.
He had never seen Ozma, but he knew she was his Ruler and must be
obeyed.

There was only one thing that grieved him. He had discovered a new and
secret method of transformations that was unknown to any other Sorcerer.
Glinda the Good did not know it, nor did the little Wizard of Oz, nor
Dr. Pipt nor old Mombi, nor anyone else who dealt in magic arts. It was
Bini Aru’s own secret. By its means, it was the simplest thing in the
world to transform anyone into beast, bird or fish, or anything else,
and back again, once you knew how to pronounce the mystical word:
“Pyrzqxgl.”

Bini Aru had used this secret many times, but not to cause evil or
suffering to others. When he had wandered far from home and was hungry,
he would say: “I want to become a cow—Pyrzqxgl!” In an instant he would
be a cow, and then he would eat grass and satisfy his hunger. All beasts
and birds can talk in the Land of Oz, so when the cow was no longer
hungry, it would say: “I want to be Bini Aru again: Pyrzqxgl!” and the
magic word, properly pronounced, would instantly restore him to his
proper form.
